---
created: 2025-11-09T23:44:00-08:00
tags:
  - Film
aliases:
  -
---
> [!important] 
> A woman is suspected of murder after her husband's death; their half-blind son faces a moral dilemma as the main witness.

Anatomy of a Fall: Directed by Justine Triet. With Sandra Hüller, Swann Arlaud, Milo Machado-Graner, Antoine Reinartz. 

[[Anatomy of a Fall (2023) ⭐ 7.6  Crime, Drama, Mystery]]


I watched this 【今年最震撼的电影《坠楼死亡的剖析》：谁谋杀了婚姻？】 https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Xc41197S9/?share_source=copy_web&vd_source=0f42ba3bdb2589899adbd81aa640deea video which showed the snippet of the argument in the film where the husband is complaining about how he's making all the sacrifices he could for the family but somehow he still feels that he's not doing enough. He urges for the wife/s help and almost wanted his wife to take some of the responsibility of his inability to write and his guilt for his son. I can hear the emotional desperation in his argument. What interested me was that the comment section said something about how being a woman is a 处境rather than gender. The husband is forced to be put in a 弱者 powerless in the relationship similar to a traditional role of a woman/wife in the relationship. In contrast the wife seems to be cold bloded to be minding her own business. This made me think about 2 things:

1. I can empathize a lot with the husband's emotional outburst because I too have, intakes when I'm deeply unsatisfied with my life and feel that I have caused all of this to happen to me, I want for there to be someone to blame. Usually it is the people who are the closest to me who became the "blame". In fact I can see why he felt more horrible about his life afterwards and might have committed suicide. I wonder what is the solution to this. I have moved beyond thinking that one could be fully unswayed by emotions. I realize that I'm, as the film puts it "castrated" by emotions sometimes. Through depression I realize how much I hold within myself without ever trusting anyone enough to tell. I don't have an emotional outlet. So what do I do? I feel frustrated on a daily basis that I know there's an emotion in me needing to get resolved but I cannot find a way to do it. Feels like fishing in the dark
2. The video talks about how the wife embodies what's a "post-feminism woman" where she seems to be unlimited by her gender roles. I deeply empathize with that; however I noticed a couple flaws from my education and realization to not limit myself to the predefined gender roles. In college, I was so hyper fixated on being a "new generation" independent woman that I would iconize and emphasize the things that coordinate with those notions and completely conceal the others. Like my relationship with Robert, I would tell people and paint this picture of a fully intellectual couple when deep down I know that I don't like his looks and he's just my "best option" at the time out of the fear of being alone and complexity of dating in vandy/ breaking up in vandy. After that phase of "hyper-feminism" I realized just how gendered the society still is. Women are still expected to marry, have kids, and be this "loving" and "flawless" image. At the same time, I think about the discussion of how the modern men lack the "manliness" of those in older generations. I had this discussion on a dinner table with some friends where I told her it's because the patriarchal society harms men just as much as women, and they make men think they need to have a hyper-masculinity to court a woman and succeed in life. The lack of "manliness" on a societal level shows, percisely, that men are benefiting from feminist liberation that they don't need to be the providers of the family. However, at the same time, I'm so pessimistic about how humans are all self interested that I know almost for certain that people will almost always only take the self-benefiting parts of a whole truth. Just like how women may weaponize feminism to call a personal offense "sexism" or to be able to more easily get into college via the gender equity rules or the diversity quota; men weaponize feminism to now demand that women be able to provide themselves alongside fulfilling the traditional gender role of taking care of the family, child care, household work, and emotional support. A personal friend of mine recently exited a relationship because of the amount of expectations her ex's mom had for her. She wanted her to have her own career, a hyper rich family which can support her son's career, be able to take care of house hold chores, and pay for most of their expenses. This is almost coming out of the sole confidence in her son being attracted, a good person, and having had good education. This incident, and the fact that I've dated so many people who told me that "I'm not like other girls/ people in the bay because I'm intellectual and curious about many different things", I've been told that "I think a lot/ think too much" and have been questioned "some people who rather their girlfriend/boyfriend be dumb so that it's easier to deal with". I'm in an extremely pessimistic mindset as to how can I stay true to myself and be able to find someone who is truly just attracted to who I am. It almost feels like the consequences of taking the red pill and seeing the truth. That being "woke" as a woman is a bullet against my back too because now I "see through" things enough to not be able to concede to pretending like I can't tell when someone is masoginistic  or when someone is bluffing or when someone is manipulative to have their benefits. However, at the same time I can't fully provide for myself, I can't really see myself having a fulfilling life and satisfied being alone for the rest of my life. And I can't see through things enough that I can call out a wrong behavior AND the precise logic behind why it's wrong, and say it in the appropriate way so the message is correctly interpreted. 

  

Those are just my thoughts